whoa mom versus the competition were a
professional chef and a mom cook
head-to-head preparing the best dish
possible featuring one secret ingredient
our first competitor today is mom Greta
its Minh I've been a mother for 29 years
I ride for the police department I do
mounted patrol and I take care of a
ranch then normal mom stuff I've learned
a lot about cooking for kids because
they are so picky
sometimes so you learn all kinds of
tricks I am a little nervous going up
against a real chef I don't care what I
have to do to it it's gonna taste good
just seasoned the holy heck out of
whatever that secret ingredient is make
your palette explode in a good way if I
won this my oldest daughter who has two
children I have to bank acres with you
the hopefully she learned something from
in competing against Greta is
professional chef Andrew gruel my name
is Andrew gruel on chef/owner of
SlapFish restaurant group in Southern
California we have over seven
restaurants and I've been cooking for
over 20 years our restaurant is
definitely kid-friendly we're actually
trying to get kids to eat more seafood
by making the dishes fun and whimsical
and you know really playful I do have a
five year old and I have a 15 month old
and I love cooking for kids because
interestingly their palates are so open
I'll definitely say I'm somewhat
apprehensive and nervous about today
because she's got three kids I'm a
relatively new father and that works for
my kids but that might not necessarily
work for everybody else's kids for me
it's about validation
I wouldn't mind putting this notch in
the belt welcome Greta chef Andrew today
you're going to be competing to see who
can make the tastiest dish possible
featuring one secret ingredient in 30
minutes or less please let me introduce
our panel judges
hi my name's Anthony I'm 9 years old my
favorite animal is a lion - Brianna I'm
11 years old my favorite animal is a
squirrel my name is also Andrew I'm 25
years old and my favorite animal is the
pig I think it's time to find out what
the secret ingredient is Oriana will you
please take the lid off
and no this is no B's I've ever had tofu
no no this is like a substitute for me
instead of pork or shrimp you could have
like little pieces of tofu right both
yeah here's one you pick up what I can't
explain what it feels like do you cook
with tofu at home not on purpose when I
found out it was tofu it totally threw
me for a loop I've just never dealt with
it before I don't really have that much
experience with tofu I think I cook with
it in culinary school definitely not a
tofu expert even playing fields
I guess so I'll be the only tofurkey
here okay chefs whatever you cook today
will have to feature tofu chef's you
have 30 minutes to cook and your time
starts yeah hey watch yourself gotta get
the good stuff here yeah baby I need to
figure out the template upon which I
build something that's fun that I know
the kids are gonna like beloved tofu
tofu is very jiggly I don't care for the
texture that kind of slimy feel my
strategy is gonna be just hide it as
much as possible and they won't have to
know that it's really healthy for all
those times I made fun of my vegetarian
friends I feel that this is some
Redemption so I've got tofu to work with
and hamburger beef they'll make tacos
kids love tacos and a little chili
powder mm-hmm
tofu yeah baby I know that as a kid
growing up I love BLT bacon lettuce and
tomato who doesn't love bacon it could
be my secret ingredient right here so
I'm gonna start cutting up my bacon I'm
gonna get that into the pan I'm gonna
slowly render it I'll stop with the
fancy tool if you got to show it off a
little bit I could try that all right I
don't think they'd want to pick it up
off the floor
I've got spinach and I've got some
lettuce and the one thing that I know
kids love about a salad is croutons what
do I see potato chips oh my good night
good how about I triple bread and fry
the tofu and I actually bread it in the
potato chips getting into the fried
stuff low calorie just over there I
stick the tortillas in the toaster so
while that's heating I'm gonna dice my
onions my tomatoes my lettuce and grade
my cheese I feel like this salad is
still gonna be somewhat one-dimensional
if I don't add enough
Green into it so I'm running over back
to the pantry I look in the refrigerator
and what do I see eggs I can't think of
a kid that doesn't like eggs so I'm
gonna fry the eggs in the bacon fat I'm
think I might actually just end up
frying my whole dish Jess you have 15
minutes remaining
I'll boy they're chefs come on baby this
is a little side of refried tofu beans
right now I'm making my version of a
ranch dressing I'm adding a little bit
of cream cheese never go wrong with
cheese I'm adding some fresh herbs and
adding Dijon mustard to cut through some
of that richness No thank you I don't
know anyone that doesn't like bacon
you guys want to go see what he's doing
over that and I'm gonna check in on mom
Greta okay right hey guys looks like
you're working pretty hard on your dish
please tell me you like bacon oh all
right what are you making here keeping
it simple you know with a salad trying
to bring it back to my 11 year old self
and that ranch this is better than ranch
it's all homemade right there
everything's better homemade
Thank You chef Andrew we will be looking
forward try new dish looking forward to
serving you
hey Greta yes just checking in on how
things are going so what was your
strategy coming in with tofu everybody
loves a taco especially kids right
incorporate a little tofu in there is
this something that you've made in the
past or no no no not with the tofu so do
you think the trophy's gonna complement
things I sure hope so
a little bit let's hope so all right
we'll let you get to it thank you
wondering if this is all gonna cook in
time I'm not gonna lie chef's you have
five minutes remaining times almost up
yeah I mean tofu so now I've got my tofu
in the beef so I'm gonna top them off
and I got to get my lettuce cuz I'm
going to garnish and make it look
pleasant avocado tomato and slice my
bananas and I'm gonna Surprise them with
a banana honey peanut butter taco one
minute left
make your final preparations I look down
on the plate and I realized that those
tots need dressing on them so I'm
rushing through the spoon to get that
last bit of dressing on the top three
whoo Greta chef Andrew welcome back a
little tight there Greta can you please
present your dish yummy everybody loves
tacos right yes there's some tofu in
there and if you notice the one on top
has bananas honey and peanut butter
and a nice healthy toasted tortilla one
two three I like it
you can't taste the tofu but you can
taste the means which is really good
because it means are actually amazing
kind of makes sense amongst the being I
thought I was gonna be like kind of like
flavorful but like tofu doesn't really
like taste like anything to me yeah
Thank You Greta you're welcome I think
we're gonna move on to Chef Andrews dish
chef Andrew can you please describe this
dish I love BLT it's it's iconic I
incorporate all these ingredients into
the salad potato chips crusted around
the tofu croutons my version of a ranch
dressing and fried eggs in the bacon fat
3k one actually I kind of like it
especially with the ranch mm-hmm it
makes a lot of sense I don't really like
the milk but this one is really good
feels like a healthy breakfast like yeah
someone on a diet would eat this I
wouldn't be too sure about that
Thank You chef Andrew your dishes were
both really amazing we have a lot to
discuss please give us a moment to
decide Chris dish actually reminds me of
home we have tacos every once in a while
it was very decorative and had a taco
and had dessert she kind of took the the
route of hiding the tofu and everything
so we really wanted tofu cuz that was
the secret ingredient it tasted amazing
though we all found it really tasty I'm
still trying to read the kids faces I
thought you got really creative with
those little tofu balls cuz I was
looking at your dish and I'm thinking to
myself I want to shove that in my mouth
maybe that's the 11 year old in me can
you give me details like if you liked it
for Andrews I like the idea of the BLT
salad cuz it gives it a little more
flavor I have never had a coated tofu
before it was really smart is that he
use potato chips the fried egg did kind
of feel like an afterthought this is a
tub sin thing is I think you might have
taken at home with the dessert but I'm
feeling pretty confident about my tofu
balls you take a
way of course I hope it's me but you
know I'll be a gracious loser I think we
know who the winner is ya think we do
let's get them back in here
grete chef Andrew thank you both for
coming in today could some really
amazing dishes unfortunately we can only
have one winner
grete your dessert taco was really good
it was a nice surprise on the plate chef
Andrew we thought your salad BLT was a
very creative choice and the winner of
mom versus chef is chef Andrew good
night plate these kids have poker faces
better than seasoned professionals I was
really surprised
ah I really thought I had a good chance
at this but I was impressed my hat's off
to him
this is the best judging panel right
here I come from a restaurant mentality
so kind of had to flip things upside
down on their head a little bit when I
go home tonight yeah I might be bragging
a little bit in front of the kids
no more saying my food doesn't taste
good both grier dishes were truly
amazing this has been mom versus chef
what ingredient should we do next time
taffy dessert eat I'm happy
oh yeah